WIP: Initial glossary from workshop. (#21)
aeternity/hyperchains-whitepaper: glossary.md

# Glossary

## Chains

### Hyperchain (HC)
A hybrid blockchain technology consisting of two blockchains: a delegated proof of stake (DPoS) child chain (CC) and a proof of work (PoW) parent chain (PC) where the child chain periodically synchronizes with the parent chain.

As a PoW secured DPoS, a hyperchain benefits from the scalability advantages of a DPoS blockchain with the security advantages of a PoW blockchain.

### Child Chain (CC)
A Delegated Proof of Stake blockchain that is one half of a hyperchain. The CC is configurable by the initiator and loosely connected to the parent chain. The child chain uses the parent chain as a source of entropy and for "pinning," but the parent chain has no knowledge of the child chain.

### Parent Chain (PC)
Any PoW blockchain that fulfills the role of "the other half" of a hyperchain by providing entropy for the CC and allowing for the pinning of data from the CC. The parent chain functions independently from and has no knowledge of the child chain.

## Blocks

### CC Block
Contains one keyblock and possibly one microblock.

### Keyblock

> A placeholder block indicating the leader that should produce a microblock.

Reviewer: Not sure about the placeholder comment. The keyblock contains all the state tree hashes etc so it is crucial for consensus. However, the separation into micro-block + key-block is entirely artificial and a legacy of building on top of a code base that uses BitcoinNG...

### Node Operators (Staked and non-staked validators)
All participants running a CC node are node operators.

### Leader
Producer chosen to produce the current block

### Pinner (Pinning Leader)
Block producer at the end of epoch that is allowed to collect a reward for pinning on the parent chain and posting the proof back on the child chain.

### Producers
Validator that produces a block.

### Delegator
Wallet/account that deposits tokens into staking contract on behalf of validator in order to increase the stake. Does not run a node or have further interaction with CC or PC.

## Actions & Events

### Stake
The amount of tokens deposited by delegators representing the selection weight of the validator to be chosen as a leader.

### Leader Election
The weighted random selection of leader from among eligible validators based on the amount to tokens staked in a staking contract.

### Block Production
The act of creation of a block done by the producer

### Block Reward
Tokens minted and/or transferred to staking contract to reward successful block production.

### Pinning Reward
Tokens minted and/or transferred to staking contract to reward successful pinning operation.
### Halting

> A situation when no more blocks are produced (due to all stakers being inactive). This creates a problem for the HC creator to recover the HC and resume the block production. Some possible solutions are proposed.

Reviewer 2: Isn't stakers defined as passive actors above? Shouldn't this refer to validators?

> due to all validators being inactive

### Termination
Willful end of a hyperchain

## On-Chain Protocol Components

### Staking Contract
Contract used by validator to represent the validator's stake, the ID and stake amount of delegators, and contains the functions for withdrawal of rewards.

### Leader Election Contract

> Election rules defined at contract level (as opposed to consensus level). Likely not part of v1.0.

Reviewer: Given that the current broken implementation has (parts of) its consensus in a contract it is safe to assume that whatever we build also will be a hybrid-solution.

# Glossary
### CC Block
Contains one keyblock and possibly one microblock

### Keyblock

> A placeholder block indicating the leader that should produce microblocks in this generation.

Reviewer 3: "generation" and "plural micro blocks is confusing here.
```suggestion
A placeholder block indicating the leader that should produce a microblock.
```

### Microblock
A block with transactions.

### Epoch

> Period of time represented in blocks during which validators are pre-selected to produce blocks and after which the state of the CC can be pinned to the PC.

Reviewer 3: Possibly call this a "CC Epoch then".
There's also epoch for PC, but that differs in definition

### Producers
Validator that produces a block

### Delegator
Wallet that deposits tokens into staking contract on behalf of validator in order to increase the stake. Does not run a node or have further interaction with CC or PC.

### Stake
The amount of tokens deposited by delegators representing the selection weight of the validator to be chosen as a leader.

### Staking Contract
Contract used by validator to represent the validator's stake, the ID and stake amount of delegators, and contains the functions for withdrawal of rewards.

### Block Reward
Tokens minted and/or transferred to staking contract to reward successful block production.

### Pinning Reward
Tokens minted and/or transferred to staking contract to reward successful pinning operation.

### Leader Election
The weighted random selection of leader from among eligible validators based on the amount to tokens staked in a staking contract.

### Leader Election Contract
Election rules defined at contract level (as opposed to consensus level). Likely not part of v1.0.

### Genesis Accounts

> Accounts in which HC tokens are generated during the first block of CC.

Reviewer 3: In our case it also contains some contracts used in the CC... or actually, no, but we have the notion of genesis contracts or genesis block as well

Author: Could you formulate that as a change request?
